Setup updates for Linux (#888)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/platforms/linux/_index.md

weight: 200
---

Read the [system requirements](/docs/welcome-guide/requirements) for information on setting up your Linux environment for development with Open 3D Engine.

{{< note >}}
The instructions provide here are based on building O3DE from source and not from pre-built O3DE SDK files. It assumes that the O3DE source code has been pulled from its github repository (or from a fork).

> {{< /note >}}

Author: Thanks, that would be helpful

{{< note >}}
The instructions below will assume that $O3DE_ENGINE refers to the absolute path of where the O3DE source code exists on the local file system. For target project(s), refer to Refer to [Projects](docs/user-guide/project-config) on how to create new O3DE projects. 
{{< /note >}}

> ## First Time Setup

Author: Good idea, will remove

Once the O3DE source code is downloaded onto your local file system, it needs to have Python 3.7 packages downloaded and initialized in order to proceed.

```shell
cd $O3DE_ENGINE/python

./get_python
```
## Projects

Refer to [Projects](docs/user-guide/project-config) on how to create new O3DE projects. 

## Project Build Generation

> Although Unix Make Files are supported on Linux with cmake, it is recommended to use Ninja as aa build system in order to support multiple configurations for generated builds. The instructions described for the different development flows will be based on "Ninja Multi-Config" as the cmake generator.

Reviewer: nit: typo here on "to use Ninja as **aa** build system"

{{< note >}}

> When generating projects, a project path is required. This can be an existing O3DE project, or a new one generated with the instructions provided through the [Projects](docs/user-guide/project-config) page. The instructions below will assume that $O3DE_PROJECT will refer to the absolute path of the project to base the build on. 

Author: Removed

{{< /note >}}

### Multiple Config Builds
The following command will generate a build folder under the root of the project folder $O3DE_PROJECT called build/linux, using Ninja as the build generator and clang-12 as the compiler.

```shell

cd $O3DE_PROJECT

$O3DE_ENGINE/scripts/o3de.sh register --project-path .

> cmake -B build/linux -S . -G"Ninja Multi-Config" -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang-12 -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++-12 

Author: Actually, the parameter requires that there is no space between -G and the generator (this was tested)

> cmake -B build/linux -S . -G"Ninja Multi-Config" -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang-12 -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++-12 

Reviewer 2: Hmm, their manual clearly shows a space between `-G` and the argument:
https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/user-interaction/index.html#command-line-g-option
I'm going to guess the test you're referring to was faulty somehow, but I won't push for the change any further.

> cmake -B build/linux -S . -G"Ninja Multi-Config" -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang-12 -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++-12 

Author: I went ahead and added the space anyways. You are right, their documents have a space in between. But I've had problems with that in the past, but it was more related to constructing the command through code, not from typing it into the command line

```

### Single Config Builds

If you do not need to generate multi-config build folders, you can instead specify "Unix Makefiles" instead, but will need to specify a configuration the configuration at the time of project generation. ($BUILD_CONFIG below can be either debug, profile, or release)

```shell

cd $O3DE_PROJECT

$O3DE_ENGINE/scripts/o3de.sh register --project-path .

> cmake -B build/linux -S . -G"Unix Makefiles" -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang-12 -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++-12 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=$BUILD_CONFIG

Author: Same as above, the command should not have a space between -G and "Unix Makefiles"

```

To build the project, you can specify a specific target (like Editor for the example below)

```shell

cd $O3DE_PROJECT

cmake --build build/linux --target=Editor
```

> 

Author: Removed

## Building from command line

Once the build folder is generated, building from command line at this point is the same as the other platforms. 

> ### Single Config Builds

Author: Moved

For projects that were generated using the Unix Makefile generator, the configuration will already be specified during the project generation and you can only build for that configuration.

```shell

cd $O3DE_PROJECT

> cmake --build build/linux 

Reviewer 2: What about the `--target` argument? Don't we need something like `--target $PROJECT_NAME.GameLauncher Editor` here?

Author: By default, it builds all targets (include project manager), which probably isn't applicable for new projects, but is applicable if they are building O3DE straight from source code only.

Reviewer 2: Since we're building the project here, I'd recommend we scope the targets to the project launcher and Editor.

Author: Sounds good. I'll add a note that if they wish to build project manager, they can use a specific target instead

Author: As it turns out, building the Editor also builds project manager, so the note isnt needed. Will remove that note

```

### Multiple Config Builds

For projects that were generated using the Ninja Multi-Config generator will require that the build configuration be part of the build command.

```shell

cd $O3DE_PROJECT

> cmake --build build/linux --config profile

Reviewer 2: Same question as above about needing a `--target` argument here...

Author: By default, it builds all targets (include project manager), which probably isn't applicable for new projects, but is applicable if they are building O3DE straight from source code only.

Author: Scoped the targets

```

## Advanced Topics

> ### Generating a compile_commands.json 

Reviewer 2: Suggest stating the larger goal of this section in the title. Is this accurate?
```suggestion
### Adding IntelliSense support
```

Author: Its not specifically for intellisense ( https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html ), but it is often used for it.

Author: Updated wording on that section

> In conjuction with using the Ninja or the Unix Makefile generators, cmake has the option to generate a [compile-command.json](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html) file that can be used by IDEs like Visual Studio Code to aid in its intellisense. 

Author: Updated

{{< note >}}

> The compile-command.json is only usable by IDEs when Unity builds are turned off. Since Unity builds are enabled by default in O3DE, you will need to explicitly turn it off with the **-DLY_UNITY_BUILD=OFF** argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `compile-command.json` file is only usable by IDEs when Unity builds are turned off. Since Unity builds are enabled by default in O3DE, you will need to explicitly turn it off with the `-DLY_UNITY_BUILD=OFF` argument.
```

{{< /note >}}

> To support this, the following arguments need to be added to the project generation command line described previously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To support IntelliSense features, include the following arguments in the project generation command:
```
